Basic Object Tracking Methods:

Optical Flow
MeanShift and CamShift

Advanced Technique: Built-In Tracking APIs




Optical Flow is the patternn of apparent motion of image objects between 2 consecutive frames caused by the movement of object or camera.

Function Used:
1. Lucas-Kanade Function
2. Gunner Farneback's algorithm


Lucas-Kanade computes optical flow for a sparse feature set. Meaning only the points it was told to track.

Gunner Farneback's algorithm is used to calculate dense optical flow, which will calculate flow for all points in an image. It will color them black if no flow is detected.

Assumptions:
1. Pixel intensity of an object does not change between consecutive frames
2. Neighbouring pixels have similiar motion

Meanshift Algorithm:
Detects number of clusters. Type of Clustering algorithm.
It will be given a target to track. It will calculate the color histogram of the target area, and then keep sliding the tracking window to the closest match (the cluster center).

Camshift Algorithm:
Unlike MeanShift, we can update the size of the window


Tracking APIs:

1. Boosting Tracker:
    Based on AdaBoost Algorithm (HAAR Cascade uses this algorithm as well)
    Evaluation occurs across multiple frames
    
    Cons:
        Doesn't know when tracking has failed
        
2. MIL Tracker (Multiple Instance Learning):
    Considers a neighborhood of points around the current location to create multiple instances.
    
    Cons:
        Failure to track an object may not be reported back
        Cannot recover from full obstruction
        
3. KCF Tracker (Kernelized Correlation Filters):
    Exploits some properties of the MIL Tracker and the fact that many data points will overlap, leading to more accurate and faster tracking.
    
    Cons:
    Cannot recover from full obstruction
    
4. TLD Tracker (Tracking, Learning and Detection):
    Tracker follows the object from frame to frame
    The detector localizes all appearances that have been observed so far and corrects the tracker if necessary.
    The learning estimates detector's errors and updates it to avoid these errors in the future.
    
    Cons:
        Can provide many false positives.
        
5. MedianFlow Tracker:
    This tracker tracks the object in both forward and backward directions in time and measures the discrepancies between these two trajectories.
    
    Cons:
        Fails under large motion (fast moving objects)